---
title: 'Jesus Christ, Our Example'
date: 2022-02-21T07:57:00.011Z
draft: false
---

I was recently reading Matt 26:30 where it says that Jesus sang a hymn. This is the only time in Jesus' life where it says He sang a hymn. As someone who isn't great at singing, I was curious about how good a singer Jesus would have been. However, this led me to ask a bigger question: "How talented/skilled was Jesus in the day-to-day activities he had to engage in on it?". I wondered whether being the Son of God and being full of the Holy Spirit, He was more likely to have many talents and find it easy to do many day-to-day activities we all engage in such as relationships and working to earn a living. I started out leaning more towards things being easy for Him to do, but the more I looked into scripture and meditated on it, the more I was convinced of the opposite.

Speaking of Jesus, Isaiah 53:2 says "There was nothing beautiful or majestic about his appearance, nothing to attract us to him". Think about that for a moment. There was nothing about him externally that would attract anyone to Him. Not good looks, not an extraordinary skill or talent. He seemed ordinary in every way possible, especially before He started his public ministry. There is also absolutely no indication that Jesus had a reputation for anything extraordinary while growing up in Nazareth. When He began His public ministry all we hear people remember Him as is a Carpenter and the son of Mary/Joseph. There was no indication that he was known for being an extraordinarily skilled carpenter in Nazareth, the best in a sport, or the best student/scholar in the Jewish schools most students in Israel went to in those days.

> "For it was fitting for Him, for whom are all things, and through whom are all things, in bringing many sons to glory, to perfect the author of their salvation through sufferings." - Hebrews 2:10 [1]

> "For we do not have a high priest who cannot sympathize with our weaknesses, but One who has been tempted in all things as we are, yet without sin." - Hebrews 4:15 [2]

A lot of temptations we face as humans come about when we find it hard to do something or when we find ourselves in difficult situations. Hebrews 2:10 and 4:15 indicate that God made many things specifically harder for Jesus in all areas of His life compared to regular people. God had to make Jesus have many (non-sinful) weaknesses and pass through ALL the same kind of hardships and challenges that every single human has ever gone through and will ever go through, and to a degree far beyond what any other individual has ever/will ever go through. Only in this way, He would be able to be an example to every single person on earth. And because He remained 100% righteous and sinless through all the difficult situations He is able to relate with our struggles and also teach us to be 100% righteous through the hardships we face, which are only a fraction of His experience.

For example, Jesus could have had an easy childhood but God deliberately made things harder for Jesus by allowing His earthly father (Joseph) to pass away early and making Jesus become the primary provider for His home from a young age. God also decided that rather than having loving siblings, He had brothers who despised Jesus and didn't believe Mary's account of Jesus' birth Psalms 69:8 [3]. Yet He had to be stuck in the same room with them (Most Jewish homes in those days were composed of a small house with only one bedroom. Through these experiences, Jesus is able to help everyone who is having/has had a difficult childhood overcome.

Perhaps Jesus probably wasn't considered good-looking by anyone (Isaiah 53:2) and thus He could be an example to anyone who is not considered attractive by the world. Perhaps carpentry also did not come naturally to Jesus and so He had to struggle and work harder than other Carpenters in Nazareth to make the same quality of furniture they did and yet do so with joy while relying on the Holy Spirit for success. And by being faithful in it, He can be an example to every child going through an especially difficult subject in school and any adult doing a job where they find that they aren't as skilled as their colleagues and have to struggle more.

Thus, let us not be surprised when God allows us to go through a difficult path when He could easily have made us go through an easy path. He is only making us walk in the same footsteps as our beloved Elder brother, Jesus, so that we may have the awesome privilege of fellowshipping with Him in His suffering. And the even better news is that Jesus is more than able and willing to help us overcome just as He overcame and become perfect as He is.

> "Consider it all joy, my brethren, when you encounter various trials, knowing that the testing of your faith produces endurance. And let endurance have its perfect result, so that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing." - James 1:2-4

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

### Footnotes

[1] According to strong's concordance, the word "suffering" in Hebrews 2:10 can also be translated as "something undergone, that is, hardship or pain; subjectively an emotion or influence: - affection, affliction, motion, suffering".

[2] According to strong's concordance, the word "tempt" in Hebrews 4:15 can also be translated as "to test (objectively), that is, endeavor, scrutinize, entice, discipline: - assay, examine, go about, prove, tempt (-er), try".

[3] I also believe that many of the experiences described in Psalms 69:1-21 refer to Jesus' childhood experience.

> "Save me, O God, For the waters have threatened my life. I have sunk in deep mire, and there is no foothold; I have come into deep waters, and a flood overflows me. I am weary with my crying; my throat is parched; My eyes fail while I wait for my God. Those who hate me without a cause are more than the hairs of my head; Those who would destroy me are powerful, being wrongfully my enemies; What I did not steal, I then have to restore. O God, it is You who knows my folly, And my wrongs are not hidden from You. May those who wait for You not be ashamed through me, O Lord God of hosts; May those who seek You not be dishonored through me, O God of Israel, Because for Your sake I have borne reproach; Dishonor has covered my face. I have become estranged from my brothers And an alien to my mother's sons. For zeal for Your house has consumed me, And the reproaches of those who reproach You have fallen on me. When I wept in my soul with fasting, It became my reproach. When I made sackcloth my clothing, I became a byword to them. Those who sit in the gate talk about me, And I am the song of the drunkards. But as for me, my prayer is to You, O Lord, at an acceptable time; O God, in the greatness of Your lovingkindness, Answer me with Your saving truth. Deliver me from the mire and do not let me sink; May I be delivered from my foes and from the deep waters. May the flood of water not overflow me Nor the deep swallow me up, Nor the pit shut its mouth on me. Answer me, O Lord, for Your lovingkindness is good; According to the greatness of Your compassion, turn to me, And do not hide Your face from Your servant, For I am in distress; answer me quickly. Oh draw near to my soul and redeem it; Ransom me because of my enemies! You know my reproach and my shame and my dishonor; All my adversaries are before You. Reproach has broken my heart and I am so sick. And I looked for sympathy, but there was none, And for comforters, but I found none. They also gave me gall for my food And for my thirst they gave me vinegar to drink." - Psalms 69:1-21
