+++
date = 2021-10-22T07:30:00Z
title = "Make Jesus Your Hero"

+++
When we think about a hero, we always have in mind an individual who is so good at something and may have received several accolades and awards. We think of basketball stars, football stars, book writers, or even film stars who are so good in their occupation and may have brought some happiness and joy for their followers. And because of the impacts they have made in their respective fields, many young and old want to be like them, and they even follow their favorite stars on social media to see and hear their every move. They say, “Such and such is my hero.”

But I know of a person who emptied himself from all the heavenly royalties and kings status, took the form of a bond-servant, and was made in the likeness of men. He came down to earth and humbled himself, never did his own will, but was obedient, even to the death of the cross. _He tasted death for everyone_– Hebrews 2:9. Why death? Well, because of the disobedience of Adam at the beginning of time, everyone born of the flesh is now a partaker of that sinful nature, and the consequence is eternal damnation-spiritual death in hell. But this man, Jesus, took your place of death on the cross, went to hell, and became sin, so that you may live eternally with God the Father in heaven. Some will say why did he have to do that for me when I’m such a wreck and a sinner? _Because God, being rich in mercy, because of His great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ (by grace you have been saved), and raised us up with Him, and seated us with Him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the ages to come He might show the surpassing riches of His grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus._ (Ephesians 2:4-7).

Now, God the Father sees me without sin. Just as I was a partaker of the sinful nature of Adam, now made a partaker of his divine nature. He sees me justified and perfect because Christ took my place. Therefore, I have no right standing in God’s throne because of my goodness but Christ’s righteousness. So now, should we not make Jesus our hero? the superhero that supersedes all other heroes. I believe we should. Most of the time, we appreciate our heroes even when they don’t know us- We pay substantial ticket prices to watch them play and act, attend concerts, are excited to take pictures with them, buy their products, and want to be like them at all cost. However, Christ Jesus is more than all the heroes put together. Concerning him, we have much to say.

My encouragement is to set our eyes continuously on what he has done for us. As Hebrews 13: 9 says, “_Do not be carried away by varied and strange teachings; for it is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace, not by foods, through which those who were so occupied were not benefited_. (I like to see foods as earthly and material issues). When we keep setting our eyes and ears in the true grace in Christ Jesus, our hearts are enlightened and strengthened.

“_I will pour out on the house of David and on the inhabitants of Jerusalem, the Spirit of grace and of supplication, so that they will look on Me whom they have pierced; and they will mourn for Him, as one mourns for an only son, and they will weep bitterly over Him like the bitter weeping over a firstborn_.” (Zechariah 12:10)- Blessed are those who mourn over their sins, for they will see clearly what Jesus paid for. They shall be strengthened and love him more and more.

Make Jesus your hero while you’re alive on earth. Follow him. Follow his ways. Follow his words. Fellowship with his suffering- “_Jesus also, that He might sanctify the people through His own blood, suffered outside the gate. **So, let us go out to Him outside the camp, bearing His reproach**. For here we do not have a lasting city, but we are seeking the city which is to come_“. (Hebrews 13:12-13)-bearing the cross in our daily lives, reproaches, persecution, taking the lowest place, and reviled are ways we follow him and make him our hero. The narrow way is not popular. “_For what credit is there if, when you sin and are harshly treated, you endure it with patience? But if when you do what is right and suffer for it you patiently endure it, this finds favor with God. For you have been called for this purpose, since Christ also suffered for you, leaving you an example for you to follow in His steps_” (1 Peter 2:20-21).

Finally, in the book of Revelation, it says, “_And they sang a new song before the throne and before the four living creatures and the elders; **no one could learn the song except the one hundred and forty-four thousand who had been purchased from the earth**. These are the ones who have not been defiled with women, for they have kept themselves chaste. **These are the ones who follow the Lamb wherever He goes**. These have been purchased from among men as firstfruits to God and to the Lamb_“.

This verse taught me that even as wholehearted Christians, we are in danger of falling into phariseeism, and others who may think they are good enough and not as bad as the murderers, rapists. And their goodness will take them to heaven. But this scripture makes it clear that the ones who will be in heaven with God the father are those (144,000) countable disciples, the few chosen who sing the song of the spirit of sacrifice and follow the Lamb wherever he goes.

I pray that we all set our hearts and minds to Him alone and make Jesus our superhero and our life.