---
title: 'How we met'
date: 2021-11-04T21:22:00.001-07:00
draft: false
url: /2021/12/wedding-testimony-part-1.html
---

His Story
=========

In my teenage years, I was a very shy and timid individual. I found it difficult to talk to new people, especially females. Thus, I had little to no female friends. However, in 2013, I began chatting with a female friend more frequently, and I began fancying the idea of a romantic relationship with her. By this time, I was already born-again, and I knew God wanted me to get married at some point. However, I wanted to know how to discern if such feelings were of God or just fleshly infatuation. Therefore, I prayed, and I felt God say that there is no reason for me to ever get into a romantic relationship until I believed I was ready for marriage. Since I knew for certain that I didn’t plan to get married anytime soon, this protected me during my early twenties and helped me to focus more on following after the Lord.

Fast forward a few years to 2018 and I had begun my graduate program in Kentucky. After one semester into the program, I realized that I was going to be joined in my research lab by a female who was also Nigerian. I was immediately concerned about the possibility of us becoming very close, as I knew that we would be spending a lot of time together working in the lab and taking the same classes. I also anticipated that we would have a lot of things in common since we were both from Nigeria and living in a foreign country. Thus, I wanted to hear clearly from the Lord if he had any special plans for both of us as a couple. I wasn't praying because I was interested in her, in fact, the only answer I really wanted to hear from God was a No, but because I felt it was much easier to hear such instructions from God before there were any emotions involved. Unfortunately, I heard nothing.

When Esther arrived on campus, one of the first conversations I had with her was regarding her walk with the Lord (I already knew she was a Christian). I was encouraged about how honest she was and I sensed a genuine desire to follow after Christ. For the first few months of our friendship, I was constantly oscillating between wanting to grow in showing kindness to Esther and making sure I wasn’t misleading her. This was also compounded by the fact that kindness was really emphasized at the church I was attending and there were so many opportunities to show kindness to Esther. After about a month and a half of us being friends, Esther messaged me saying: “Thanks! You’re amazing”! I moved into panic mode lol and decided to send her a friendly message saying:

"My mindset when it comes to relationships is that the only reason for me to get into one is for the purpose of marriage and so I don’t need to start thinking about it until I sense I’m close to being ready to get married (and God has confirmed this). And even then, It must be the person God has chosen for me (which I don’t know yet). I’m sharing this because I feel that there is naturally a high probability of us getting closer with time, and so I don’t want to give you any wrong impression. Also, if you notice that I am getting too close please I’ll appreciate it if you bring it to my attention".

She responded by saying we were on the same page and she had already brother-zoned me (that was the one and only time I have heard someone use that term lol). This caused me to become even freer with her because I was no longer afraid of misleading her. However, this had a funny effect on me; I started becoming attracted to her!! Thus, I once more began oscillating between being free and being cautious. This time though, it wasn't for her sake but for mine! I knew that the choice of a life partner was one of the biggest decisions one would ever make, and I didn’t want to make a mistake in this area. I also began praying constantly to hear what God was saying regarding the matter, but I wasn’t even confident that I would be able to hear Him because emotions had set in. After about 6 months of being in this state, I finally began to get some relief.

In August of 2018, there was an all-expense-paid trip to an academic conference in New Orleans and Esther, another teammate, and I were eligible to go. It was a conference that I wanted to go to, but when I discovered that the other teammate would not be going, I was hesitant to go because I knew that would mean spending a lot of time with Esther, and although a part of me wanted to, I wasn’t sure it was the right thing to do. But to my surprise, after praying about it, I had peace about going. Also, during our time in New Orleans, after many insightful conversations, I became more convinced that Esther was the life partner God would want me to have. Now the next question was when the right time to ask her was. After a couple of months and more prayers, in November of 2018, I got two separate verses from the bible clarifying that: (1) The Lord wasn’t just giving me the go-ahead to marry Esther because I liked her, but it was His idea to bring I and Esther together and (2) Now was the right time to ask her.

These two verses gave me the confidence I needed to proceed to ask her to Marry Me! and one month later she said Yes! It’s been 3 years now since we began our relationship and although it has taken longer than I would have liked, through it all the Lord has helped me to grow in wisdom, maturity, and Christlikeness. As we make this bold step in marriage, I can confidently say that God, who has begun this good work in us, will continue his work until it is finally finished on the day when Christ Jesus returns (Philippians 1:6). Amen!

  

Her Story
=========

I remember thinking well of marriage as a young girl and looking forward to being a mum. As I grew into my tween years, I thought fondly of the idea of casually dating for fun. I remember having a conversation with my children’s church teacher where I explained to him that dating for tweens is merely platonic and his response was, “Then, why date?” Being the pre-teen that I was, my thought was why not date. I reasoned that if dating or not dating doesn’t make a difference (i.e., the end was a merely platonic relationship), then why avoid it?

Thankfully, I had another children’s church teacher who noticed that I was getting to the age of pairing up. She invited me over to her house to counsel me a few times, using her experience to guide me to preserve my heart for the one whom GOD had destined to be my husband. Unbeknownst to her, she planted a seed that would guide my attitude towards pre-marital relationships for years to come. Armed with the experiences of my teacher, during my tween/early teenage years, I decided against casual dating for the exact reason that my children’s church teacher had given. Then, I had a desire that the man I would marry would be a friend first before any romantic notions. I held on to this idea till I finished high school.

Before I started college, I attended a singles program with my cousin and aunt where the pastor talked about the odds of getting divorced/having an unhappy marriage. This coupled with the examples of some marriages I knew and Paul’s admonishment in 1 Cor 7: 8, 34-35, made me see single life as far better than married life. I didn’t want to be stuck in an unhappy marriage, be tied down in any way or encourage the pressure that is often heaped on Nigerian women when they are unmarried past marriageable age. It also helped that the scripture supported this line of thinking (or so I thought). As a result, I made it clear to everyone that I thought the single life was better than the married life for me. I went on with this thought process until Shina’s proposal…

Now, let’s not get too ahead of ourselves, I haven’t told you how I met Shina yet. In 2017, I graduated from college, and I was planning to start graduate school not too long after. So, in June 2017, I got in touch with my current advisor, we had a conversation on our research interests, it was a match and I planned to start working in his lab. He mentioned that there was another Nigerian person in the lab, and I was like ok, cool. Out of curiosity, I googled all my lab-mates (yes, all four of lab-mates of mine at the time🙈). What stood out to me from Shina’s web presence was that he had a blog with Christian content. And I was like, he’s a Christian too!!! Anyway, he started in Fall 2017, and I was unable to start until Spring 2018. We probably chatted a couple of times over slack that semester.

And the moment we’ve all been waiting for... In the first week of January 2018, I met Shina for the first time. He was living a couple of miles off-campus and just because of the kind of person he is, once he found out that I had arrived in Lexington, he reached out to see if there was any way I needed help and helped me out. Eventually, we happened to have two classes together, attend the same church, live as neighbors briefly and work in the same lab. Being very similar in macro-characteristics, we became good friends. Shina, having heard the messages from bro Zac and not wanting to lead me on without being sure if I was the one, sent me a text message letting me know that he was not interested in a romantic relationship with me. This was a major red flag for me because I was like, "what signs am I giving this guy that makes him think I’m interested in a romantic relationship?" But anyway, I was going to keep my social distance from him however, we eventually went back to our usual friendship. Over time, I developed feelings for Shina but remember, I didn’t think it was GOD’s will for me to get married… So, I wrestled with those feelings, prayed against them, reminded myself of Shina’s text, and really sought to be free from those feelings. And I would get reprieve… until the feelings came back again, and I would rinse and repeat. One time, I remember just praying that GOD should take it away if it was HIS will but ultimately let HIS will be done. After this prayer, I did not get the reprieve from my feelings for Shina, rather, I got peace and strength to both have the feelings and still be normal with Shina. It was weird but I was happy for the peace and rest GOD gave and I stopped thinking about my feelings for Shina. After a while, I noticed that Shina would switch between being a bit free around me and retreating to himself, but I had different things I was seeking GOD for, and Shina’s cyclical friendship was not concerning to me at the time.

Fast forward to Fall 2018, I noticed strangely that Shina was no longer retreating but I didn’t give it any serious thought. Eventually, Shina asked me to marry him. Since I wasn't sure if marriage was in GOD's plan for my life, I spent about a month learning some more about GOD's plan for marriage and if it intersects with my life.

During that time, I got a clearer picture of the value of marriage as a picture of Christ and the Church (Eph 5:31-32), bearing godly seed (Mal 2:15), and the roles a husband and wife can play in building the body of CHRIST (1 Tim 5: 9-10). As I look back, I realize that I was only scratching the surface. During my relatively long courtship, I would learn (I’m still learning) humility, willful submission, new ways of dying to self, how the flesh disguises itself and how fleshly replicas of the fruit of the SPIRIT cannot work and close fellowship with another human being (Rom 7:18, 1 Pet 2:18-3:6). I would also come to appreciate the power of unity and the responsibility and strength GOD gives me as a gift for Shina (Eccl 4:9-12).

So, as Elisabeth Elliot says “Single life may be only a stage of a life's journey, but even a stage is a gift. God may replace it with another gift, but the receiver accepts His gifts with thanksgiving.” My GOD Almighty and loving Heavenly FATHER decided to give me marriage as a gift just as HE gave me my singleness as a gift. It is in HIS loving hands that I commit myself and my marriage, knowing that the result of my life whether in marriage or in singleness will be that my lifestyle and character will be more like JESUS’s.